// Colin Gunningham 5/2/16
// Editing for the stages of writing assignment

The study of snowflakes dates as far back as 135 B.C., when Chinese naturalists discovered that snowflakes
follow a hexagonal structure. For hundreds of years, however, snowflakes were too small to be 
explained in detail. In the 1920s, X-ray crystallography was developed, which allowed the observation of ice crystal
formation (Strickland 3). The study of ice crystals that followed revealed how snowflakes form, how they 
vary from one another, and how every snowflake may be unique. 

The first step in snowflake formation is the formation of snow crystals. Each snow crystal is created 
through the condensation of water vapor into ice. Once snow crystals have formed, they combine to form a hexagonal lattice.
Multiple hexagonal lattices then combine to form a large crystal structure. As more molecules attach
to the structure, six points on the snowflake grow more quickly by attracting the most molecules (Strickland 4). 
This is why snowflakes generally have a hexagonal geometry. 

Although most snowflakes have a basic hexagonal geometry, there is extreme variation between individual 
snowflakes. In fact, several general types of snowflakes have been identified, including fernlike,
dendritic, stellar, and plate. The main reason for this variation is differences in temperature and moisture levels in the environment
surrounding a snowflake (White). For example, Stellar snowflakes form best at -15°C, while fernlike
snowflakes form at around -6°C (Libbrecht). Even slight variations in temperature, pressure, or humidity 
can drastically shift a snowflake’s growth pattern (Strickland 7).

Despite the general categories of snowflakes, no two snowflakes are exactly identical. While it is true
that ice crystals may be identical at the beginning of snowflake formation, it becomes unlikely that any two
snowflakes will be identical as the number of possible changes increases. Due to the number of different possibilities 
in crystal formation, it is very unlikely that any two complex snow crystals that have ever been created in history
will ever look completely alike (Libbrecht). 

To summarize, the structure of a snowflake is mainly determined by the temperature and moisture levels
in its environment. The geometry of snowflakes is based on a hexagonal system.
Although no two snowflakes are exactly identical, there are general categories of snowflake geometries, 
including fernlike, dendritic, plate, and stellar. These types are formed according to different environmental parameters.  


References 
Libbrecht, Kenneth G. "Snowflakes - No Two Alike?" Snowflakes - No Two Alike? Caltech, 1 Feb. 1999. Web. 02 May 2016.
Strickland, Eliza. "Nature's Great Piece of Art-Slash-Geometry Lesson: The Snowflake." Discover Magazine. Discover, 29 June 2010. Web. 02 May 2016.
White, Lisa. "Hexagon Geometry in Snowflakes - The Smart Happy Project." The Smart Happy Project. N.p., 16 Dec. 2013. Web. 02 May 2016.
