// Colin Gunningham 5/2/16
// This is the revision of the rough draft for the stages of writing assignment

Snowflakes have been studied for thousands of years. In fact, Chinese naturalists first discovered that 
snowflakes were hexagonal in 135 B.C. For hundreds of years, however, snowflakes were too small to be 
studied closely. In the 1920s, X-ray crystallography was developed, which allowed the study of ice crystal
formation (Strickland 3). The study of ice crystals that followed revealed how snowflakes form, how they 
vary from one another, and how every snowflake may be unique. 

The first step in snowflake formation is the formation of snow crystals. Each snow crystal is created 
through the condensation of water vapor into ice. Once the snow crystals have formed, they join together 
in a hexagonal lattice. Multiple lattices then combine to form a crystal. As more and more molecules attach
to the structure, six points on the snowflake attract the most molecules. These six areas of the snowflake 
that gather the most molecules grow the fastest (Strickland 4). This is why snowflakes have a hexagonal geometry. 

Although many snowflakes have a basic hexagonal geometry, there is extreme variation between individual 
snowflakes. The main reason for this variation is differences in environmental factors such as temperature and moisture levels
(White). In fact, several general types of snowflakes have been identified, including fernlike,
dendritic, stellar, and plate. The temperature at which these different types of snowflakes form varies.
Stellar snowflakes form best at -15°C, while fernlike snowflakes form at around -6°C (Libbrecht). Even slight
variations in temperature, pressure, or humidity can drastically shift a snowflake’s growth pattern (Strickland 7).

Even though many categories of snowflakes exist, it may be true that no two snowflakes are exactly identical.
Due to the number of different possibilities in crystal formation, it is unlikely that any two complex 
snow crystals that have ever been created in history will ever look completely alike (Libbrecht). While it is true
that ice crystals may be identical at the beginning of snowflake formation, as the number of possible changes increases,
it soon becomes unlikely that any two snowflakes will be identical.

To summarize, the structure of a snowflake is mainly determined by the temperature and moisture levels
in its environment. The geometry of snowflakes is based on a hexagonal system.
Although no two snowflakes are exactly identical, there are general categories of snowflake geometries, 
including fernlike, dendritic, plate, and stellar. These types are formed best at different environmental levels.  


References 
Libbrecht, Kenneth G. "Snowflakes - No Two Alike?" Snowflakes - No Two Alike? Caltech, 1 Feb. 1999. Web. 02 May 2016.
Strickland, Eliza. "Nature's Great Piece of Art-Slash-Geometry Lesson: The Snowflake." Discover Magazine. Discover, 29 June 2010. Web. 02 May 2016.
White, Lisa. "Hexagon Geometry in Snowflakes - The Smart Happy Project." The Smart Happy Project. N.p., 16 Dec. 2013. Web. 02 May 2016.
